GENERAL FAQS

How Do I Reset My Password?


Updating your email address is easy! Here are the steps to take:


1.  Log into Gear Focus and click "Account"
2. Click on "My Account" from the dropdown.
3.  Click "Change Password." 
4. Enter your old password alongside a new password. 


I Forgot My Password


Forgot your password? No worries, there's an easy solution! 


1. Head to the Gear Focus login portal. 
2. Click "forgot password." 
3. Enter in the email associated with your account
4. An email will be sent giving you a portal to change your password. 




How Do I Contact Support?


We're here to help! You can contact support with any problems by filling out this form. 


If you wish to speak to support via phone. We are also available 8am - 5pm (EST) M-F by calling 1-443-400-5255


Does Gear Focus Buy Camera Gear?
Gear Focus is a marketplace made up of independent sellers and creators. Just like you! Occasionally, we will purchase camera gear from customers if it meets certain criteria and is an item that can benefit our marketplace.


To get a quote, simply go to this page and our team will be in touch with a price.  
What Is Gear Focus?


Gear Focus is an online marketplace made up of local shops and creators just like you! We created Gear Focus because we saw the need for a better way to buy and sell photography and videography equipment. Passionate about the craft ourselves, we dreamed of a more focused platform designed for industry professionals and hobbyists.


Leading a safe Marketplace


As Photographers and Videographers, everyone at Gear Focus has personally bought and sold a TON of gear over the years. Yes, we love gear!


When it comes to buying used gear, we know the red flags to look for in listings. We have seen it all - from poor pictures, stock pictures, pictures that don't match the product name to poorly written descriptions.


Because safe transactions are the lifeblood of a robust Marketplace, Gear Focus is constantly monitoring the site to prevent unscrupulous buyers and sellers from entering. We have developed policies and procedures around protecting both buyers and sellers from negative transaction experiences.


We take extreme pride in developing a community where we learn from and support one another. We hope you will join us as a reputable buyer and/or seller.


Reducing Transaction Fees


Gear Focus charges a 5% commission fee to the seller after an item has sold.


If you sell on eBay you will pay a 10-13% commission fee.


And if you trade-in your gear to a big corporation, their offers will be as low as $0.30-$0.40 on the dollar.


All online marketplaces charge an additional 2.9% + $0.35 when a credit card is used as the method of payment. This is a fee that the bank charges and is unrelated to Gear Focus or other online marketplaces. We have no control over this fee and cannot alter it in any way.


What Are Gear Focus' Terms and Conditions
(INSERT HERE)


Why was my account suspended?
There are many reasons why Gear Focus would suspend your account or place it under review. The most common reason is that you've you have not shipped orders and have been unresponsive.


Other reasons include multiple instances of unacceptable behavior, not providing proper images on listings, etc. 


If you would like to gain access back to your account, reach out to our support team directly. 










































































BUYER SUPPORT 


Listings and Buying Features
How Do I Message A Seller?
(SCREENSHOT) 


How Can I Leave Seller Feedback?
(SCREENSHOT)


To leave feedback for a seller, click "My Purchases" in the admin portal. Then, click "Rate This Order" and provide feedback based on a five-star rating system. The seller will be notified of your feedback via email and an overall rating will appear on their seller shop page. Ratings are an important way to reward great buyers and alert the gear focus staff of poor seller experiences. We appreciate any and all feedback that can help make our community a betterplace to buy and sell! 


How Can I Track My Shipment?
(SCREENSHOT) 


We require all sellers to provide tracking to purchase within 1-5 business days. Once a seller provides tracking, you will be notified directly via email. To check the tracking number, go to "My Purchases" and select the order. If the seller does not provide tracking within 1-5 business days, please reach out to Gear Focus support. 


Can I Pickup My Order?


At this time, Gear Focus does not support local pickups on the platform (it is coming though!). In the meantime, we will accommodate on a case-by-case basis. If you wish to pick up an item locally, please reach out to the Gear Focus staff. 


Our team can facilitate a handoff if the seller agrees to local pickup.  To do so, the buyer will need to mark the order as "Delivered" on the spot and also provide a photo with the item and a government-issued ID. 


Why Was I Charged Tax?
State sales tax will be charged on applicable orders with a shipping destination in certain states. This is not something Gear Focus has put in place independently - all online marketplaces are required to follow these laws and is not something Gear Focus can opt-out of. 


For more information read how the precedent set by the South Dakota v Wayfair, Inc. Supreme Court decision changed taxes on remote sales.


Does Gear Focus offer warranties?
Every purchase and sale is covered by our Gear Focus Protection.


However, Gear Focus does not currently offer any explicit or implied warranties, nor any third party warranties. We are always seeking ways to improve the user experience, so this feature may be implemented at a later date. We aim to bring the best possible experience with the right tools and solutions for our customers. Sellers may offer additional warranties on their own accord or through a third party and any warranty disputes are the responsibility of those parties and not Gear Focus.


What do I do after I receive my purchased item?


After receiving your order, you will need to login and confirm receipt. Simply navigate to the order details section of your order under the "Buying" > "My purchases" tab and click "Confirm Delivery." 
If everything is as expected, you can now leave feedback for the seller and your order is complete. If there are any issues with your order, you can reach out to the seller via the "Messages" tab on your order page.


RETURNS & REFUNDS


How Do I Get a Refund?
Gear Focus is an online marketplace made up of creators and sellers who manage their own shops. This means each individual seller is responsible for their own shop policies on refunds, returns, and exchanges.


These policies will vary from seller to seller, so it is always important to review the listing's "Return Policy" section before reaching out to the seller.


If you are unsatisfied with your purchase, your first step in dispute resolution is to contact the seller. Often, this can resolve the issue quickly. However, if you still feel the need to return the gear, submit a return request with the seller. Here you can elaborate on any issues/concerns with a direct message to the seller. The seller will receive a notification of return request and will have an opportunity to respond directly. If after 72 hours you still haven’t received a response from the seller, please contact Gear Focus so we can help you resolve the situation.


Sellers are given the ability to set their return policies within the “Shop Policies” section of their accounts. The default return policy on each listing is:


Used Items: must make a return request within five days of the delivery date.


New Items: must make a return request within ten days of the delivery date.


All returned items must be in as-shipped condition with original packaging and no signs of misuse. The buyer shall assume responsibility for all return shipping costs unless th


What Is My Protection As a Buyer?


Gear Focus is 100% committed to ensuring that every sale is completed with satisfaction to both buyer and seller. In the event of any issues that buyers and sellers cannot resolve themselves, our staff will communicate with both parties to review the details of the problem and work towards a resolution.


If you are unsatisfied with your purchase, your first step in dispute resolution is to contact the seller. Here is the guide to do so -->  How Do I Get a Refund? 


My Package is Delayed/Lost, What Should I Do Next?
In the unfortunate event that your package becomes lost in transit, Gear Focus has your back. The first step is to contact the Gear Focus team. 


For domestic shipments, we would ask that you wait 14 days from the last carrier scan to reach out. From there, Gear Focus will check the carrier tracking and reach out to the seller who will file a dispute with the carrier in question. If it is determined the package is lost or stolen, Gear Focus will provide a refund to the buyer. 








OFFERS


How Do I Make An Offer?
(SCREENSHOT)


Making an offer is simple! If a buyer has offers turned on for the listing you are interested in, follow these easy steps. 


1. Select the “Make an Offer” button on a listing. If you do not see the button, it means the seller has disabled Make an Offer for that particular listing.


2. Enter your offer amount.


3. Include a message to the seller if you’d like.


4. Click “Make An Offer”


Note: Even if you have a pending offer with a seller, other Gear Focus users can still make offers at the same time or purchase it at any time for the full listing price.




What Happens After an Offer is Submitted?


Sellers have 48 hours to accept or decline offer. If the 48 hours pass without the seller responding, the offer will expire.


Are You Required to Make a Purchase if Your Offer is Accepted?
Yes, once your offer is accepted you will be required to make the purchase. You will get an email notification prompting you to check out and pay for the item. 
Note: someone could still purchase the item at full cost during this time, so be sure to checkout as soon as your offer has been accepted.


What Happens After I Make An Offer?
What Happens After an Offer is Submitted?


Sellers have 48 hours to accept or decline offer. Sellers are notified via email of the offer (Example below). If 48 hours pass without the seller responding, the offer will expire.


Are You Required to Make a Purchase if Your Offer is Accepted?
Yes, once your offer is accepted you will be required to make the purchase. You will get an email notification prompting you to check out and pay for the item. 
Note: someone could still purchase the item at full cost during this time, so be sure to checkout as soon as your offer has been accepted.


How Do I Checkout After Making An Offer?
(SCREENSHOT)


First, the offer you made must be accepted by the seller (this can take up to 48 hours). Once the seller accepts the offer you will be notified via email. 


Within the email, click "Check Out Now" and the item will automatically be added to your cart at the accepted offer price. 


NOTE: Please login FIRST into Gear Focus before clicking checkout within the email













































SELLER SUPPORT


Payouts


I Sold My Item. When Do I Get Paid?
(SCREENSHOT)


You sold a listing, congrats! In order to get paid out, follow these simple steps:


1. Provide Tracking -  Once you pack and ship an item, provide a tracking number to the buyer. We give sellers 1-5 business days to complete this process. If you do not follow up with the buyer with tracking within this timeframe we, unfortunately, might have to cancel and refund the order. 


2. Wait For Item To Be Delivered - Sit tight and wait for the item to be delivered. Once the gear is delivered to the buyer, they will need to mark the item as "Delivered" within their dashboard. If a buyer does not mark as delivered in a reasonable amount of time, reach out to Gear Focus support. 


3. Enter A Valid Credit Card and Bank Information - You will need to add a valid Credit Card and Bank Information to receive payment. We require a valid credit card on file to confirm identity and for any possible returns. Click HERE to learn how to add a valid credit card.


4. Check Your Gear Focus Balance - After your shipped item is marked as delivered, you will see a balance within the admin "Transactions/Payout" page. You can use this balance towards future purchases on Gear Focus! If you wish to request a payout to your bank account, follow our guide "How do I use or withdraw my Gear Focus balance?"


How Long Does It Take To Get Paid


If this is your first time selling an item, make sure to first follow our handy guide  "I Sold My Item. When Do I Get Paid?"


Typically, it takes 2-3 business days to receive your funds once the buyer marks an item as "delivered."As a reminder, please follow these simple steps: 


1. Provide Tracking -  Once you pack and ship an item, provide a tracking number to the buyer. We give sellers 1-5 business days to complete this process. If you do not follow up with the buyer with tracking within this timeframe we, unfortunately, might have to cancel and refund the order. 


2. Wait For Item To Be Delivered - Sit tight and wait for the item to be delivered. Once the gear is delivered to the buyer, they will need to mark the item as "Delivered" within their dashboard. If a buyer does not mark as delivered in a reasonable amount of time, reach out to Gear Focus support. 


3. Enter A Valid Credit Card and Bank Information - You will need to add a valid Credit Card and Bank Information to receive payment. We require a valid credit card on file to confirm identity and for any possible returns. Click HERE to learn how to add a valid credit card.


Why Is My Payout Amount Lower Than What I Sold My Gear For?


First off, congrats on selling your Gear! The reason the amount you see in your account is different from the total amount sold is because of the seller + credit card fee. 


 Gear Focus charges a 5.0% selling fee as well as a 2.7% + $0.25* payment processing fee for each sale made. The fees are deducted from the total of your payout. Note that fees are calculated based on your order total (including shipping). Keep in mind, these fees are half of what sites like Ebay take! It's always our goal to pass on as much of the sale as possible to the sellers directly! 


How do I use or withdraw my Gear Focus balance?


Your Gear Focus balance will be released and available for purchases on Gear Focus or withdrawal to your bank account only after you have entered a valid credit card. 
This is to protect buyers and sellers by confirming the identity of the seller. In addition, a valid credit card is required to be on file in case a refund is needed on order and your funds can't cover the return costs.


Why Is Tracking Required?


Tracking information is required for all orders placed on Gear Focus. This is to ensure shipments are delivered and received. See more information on payouts in our article "I Sold My Item. When Do I Get Paid?"
Providing tracking information also helps protect you from lost or stolen packages, and gives you a tangible defense if a buyer falsely or fraudulently claims they didn't receive their order.


Find out how to add tracking here --> How Do I Add Tracking To An Order?






LISTINGS


How Do I List An Item On Gear Focus
(SCREENSHOTS)


1. Click on "My Account" in the top navigation panel.
2. Select "Dashboard" from the dropdown menu.
3. Select the "Selling" tab from the left navigation panel of your seller dashboard.
4. Click on "My Listings" from the "Selling" tab.
5. Click on the "Add product" button.
6. Fill in the product information for your listing.
7. When finished, be sure to select "Add product" to save your listing.




Can I Sell Outside The USA?
Yes! Currently, Gear Focus is open to the following countries:


United States
Canada
UK
Australia
Switzerland
Italy
Mexico
Japan
China
France
Puerto Rico
Ireland


Sellers can choose to which countries they are willing to ship their listings. Simply add countries individually with different shipping costs for each listing, or select "All of these" to enable shipping to all available countries. Some sellers may be willing to ship internationally, but all importing fees will be the responsibility of the buyer. The seller may choose to increase the cost of shipping to cover those fees, or the buyer's UPS or FedEx shipping account may be used to bill the buyer directly.


We recommend letting buyers know in the description of your listing if you are willing to ship internationally. And of course, add those countries in the product listing under shipping options.


Ready to Ship?


Now that you’ve sold your gear (congrats!) what is the next step? If you still have the original packaging, you can try to re-pack the gear as closely as possible to how it was packed when you received it. Be sure to pack gear tightly and use enough packing materials to keep your items safe and secure. Failure to pack your items properly and safely can result in damage during shipping. As a Seller you can be held responsible if poor and/or insufficient packaging is used for shipping and determined to have caused any damage during the shipping process.


Shipping insurance is a service that may reimburse senders whose parcels are lost, stolen, and/or damaged in transit. Shipping insurance is offered by postal services (USPS), courier companies (FedEx, UPS). Be wise and consider adding insurance to your shipments.


Some sellers may be willing to ship internationally, but all importing fees will be the responsibility of the buyer. The seller may choose to increase the cost of shipping to cover those fees, or the buyer's UPS or FedEx shipping account may be used to bill the buyer directly.


We recommend letting buyers know in the description of your listing if you are willing to ship internationally. And of course, add those countries in the product listing under shipping options.


Can I use currencies other than USD when making a payment on Gear Focus?


Gear Focus currently lists and sells in USD, but other currencies will be converted if used to make a purchase once we open to more countries outside the United States. Your credit card company or PayPal account will do this automatically for you, so make sure you understand the conversion rates from your currency to USD.


How is shipping calculated?


To calculate shipping costs, you can visit FedEx, UPS, or USPS online and enter the weights and dimensions of your package. If you plan to ship internationally when available, check with your carrier about other fees and customs to calculate the most accurate cost.


Shipping Rate Estimates (shipping from the continental US)


Please note that these are rough estimates to give you an idea on how much to charge for shipping. These are not calculated specifically to or from exact destinations. These estimates are also generalized size/weight for the items below - your gear may differ. The shipping rates below are estimates for illustrative purposes only. Always check with your shipping provider for up-to-date and accurate shipping costs/estimates. It is the seller's responsibility to charge the appropriate shipping amounts.


How Much Should I Charge For Shipping?
Ready to Ship?


Now that you’ve sold your gear (congrats!) what is the next step? If you still have the original packaging, you can try to re-pack the gear as closely as possible to how it was packed when you received it. Be sure to pack gear tightly and use enough packing materials to keep your items safe and secure. Failure to pack your items properly and safely can result in damage during shipping. As a Seller you can be held responsible if poor and/or insufficient packaging is used for shipping and determined to have caused any damage during the shipping process.


Shipping insurance is a service that may reimburse senders whose parcels are lost, stolen, and/or damaged in transit. Shipping insurance is offered by postal services (USPS), courier companies (FedEx, UPS). Be wise and consider adding insurance to your shipments.


Some sellers may be willing to ship internationally, but all importing fees will be the responsibility of the buyer. The seller may choose to increase the cost of shipping to cover those fees, or the buyer's UPS or FedEx shipping account may be used to bill the buyer directly.


We recommend letting buyers know in the description of your listing if you are willing to ship internationally. And of course, add those countries in the product listing under shipping options.


Can I use currencies other than USD when making a payment on Gear Focus?


Gear Focus currently lists and sells in USD, but other currencies will be converted if used to make a purchase once we open to more countries outside the United States. Your credit card company or PayPal account will do this automatically for you, so make sure you understand the conversion rates from your currency to USD.


How is shipping calculated?


To calculate shipping costs, you can visit FedEx, UPS, or USPS online and enter the weights and dimensions of your package. If you plan to ship internationally when available, check with your carrier about other fees and customs to calculate the most accurate cost.


Shipping Rate Estimates (shipping from the continental US)


Please note that these are rough estimates to give you an idea on how much to charge for shipping. These are not calculated specifically to or from exact destinations. These estimates are also generalized size/weight for the items below - your gear may differ. The shipping rates below are estimates for illustrative purposes only. Always check with your shipping provider for up-to-date and accurate shipping costs/estimates. It is the seller's responsibility to charge the appropriate shipping amounts.
Can I Offer Local Pickup?


At this time, Gear Focus does not support local pickups on the platform (it is coming though!). In the meantime, we will accommodate on a case-by-case basis. If a buyer reaches out and wants to pick up locally, please reach out to the Gear Focus staff. 


Our team can facilitate a handoff. To do so, the buyer will need to mark the order as "Delivered" on the spot and also provide a photo with the item and a government-issued ID. 




SOLD ORDERS


Refunds & Returns for Sellers
(SCREENSHOTS)


Gear Focus is an online marketplace consisting of independent shops and creators just like you! This means that each seller is responsible for their individual shop policies on refunds, returns, and exchanges. These policies will vary from seller to seller.


What does Gear Focus expect out of sellers?


As a seller using Gear Focus, you are expected to list your policies on returns and refunds in your shop policies and on individual listings (see screenshot). You are able to do this in the seller admin by clicking "Shop Policies."  
Please include the following information: 
* The time frame that returns are accepted
* Who will be paying for the cost of return shipping on items that are being sent back to you
* Any restocking fees associated with a return
* If an agreement is made directly with the buyer through messages or a support ticket, we require that the agreement made is honored.


How Do I Cancel An Order?
(SCREENSHOTS)


If for any reason you are unable to fulfill an order, we advise that you message the buyer via the order messages before canceling the order. If the buyer already submitted payment, Gear Focus will issue the buyer a full refund. To cancel an order, follow these steps:


1. Log in to the seller dashboard on Gear Focus
2. Click "My Sales" 
3. Click on the corresponding order number
4. Scroll to the bottom of the page and hit "Cancel Order." 
5. After you do this, Gear Focus will automatically refund the buyer. 


Select "Cancel Order"
This should then show as a cancelled order. Ensure the buyer is notified and you are all set. 


Please note: Reverb allows buyers 72 hours to submit payment on accepted offers. We ask that you honor that timeline before cancelling.


How Do I Add Tracking To An Order?
(SCREENSHOT)


After purchasing one of your listings you are required to provide tracking information to the buyer within 72 hours. To add a tracking number, follow the steps below:


1. Log into your Gear Focus account.
2. Click on "My Sales"  
3. Click on the order number you need to add tracking to. 
4. Click "Add Tracking" beneath the status portal.
5. Once added, the buyer will automatically be notified.


Buyer Has Not Marked As Delivered
Buyers are required to mark packages as "delivered" in the admin dashboard within a timely manner. If you noticed one of your packages has been delivered and the buyer has not marked it as delivered, reach out to Gear Focus customer service. We will look try to contact the buyer and are able to mark the item as delivered in the unlikely event the buyer is not responsive. 


OFFERS


What Happens After Someone Makes An Offer?
(SCREENSHOT)


Congrats on receiving an offer! When someone makes an offer on one of your listings, you'll be notified via email (example screenshot below). If 48 hours pass and you do not respond to the offer, the offer will expire.


What happens after I accept an offer? 
Once you accept an offer the buyer will be notified via email. Buyers have 48 hours to check out before the offer expires. Buyers are required to pay for an offer they have made an offer on. If a buyer does not checkout during this time, their account is subject to termination. 
During this time, a seller is able to accept other offers OR have a listing purchased buy a buyer for the listed amount.


How Do I Turn Offers On?
(SCREENSHOT) 


Turning offers on is a great way to increase the odds of making a sale on Gear Focus. To turn offers on, follow the following steps:


1.  Log into your Gear Focus account
2. Click on "My Listings."
3. Select the listing you'd like to enable offers on
4. Click "Enable Make an Offer."
5. Provide the minimum offer price. Users will not be able to send you offers below that amount.